# Image to Text

Image to Text conversion is a process of extracting textual information from images using advanced machine learning models.

## Overview

This project aims to leverage state-of-the-art machine learning models to convert images into text. It provides an easy-to-use interface for users to upload images and receive the corresponding text generated by the model.

## Model 

`microsoft/kosmos-2-patch14-224`
 The image to text conversion is powered by the Microsoft Kosmos model, a cutting-edge deep learning model trained on a large dataset of images and corresponding text descriptions.

## Use Cases 

- Optical Character Recognition (OCR)​
- Content Analysis and Tagging​
- Accessibility and Assistive Technology​
- Image Captioning and Description​
- Automated Text Extraction in Healthcare​
- Education and Research 
- Retail and E-commerce

## Dependencies 
* os : Provides functions for interacting with the operating system. 
* Base64 : Encodes binary data (images) into ASCII characters.
* PIL : Python Imaging Library for opening, manipulating and resizing.
* Transformers : Library for building and using state-of-the-art tranformers - based language models.
* requests: A library for making HTTP requests.
* flask & CORS: Allows to create end-point.

## Installation 

### Python Libraries

To install the required Python libraries, use pip:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```


## Configuration

The application supports custom configurations through environment variables. Refer to the .env file for available configuration options.

## Get Started

